aljaz Hamas alut is monitoring
developments from the Jordanian Capital
Aman because reminder the Israeli
government has banned aljazera from
reporting inside Israel so hamda you've
attended many of these protests yourself
what is your takeaway after
today well this is certainly a shift in
how Israelis are viewing their anger
against Israel's government look for
months we've been covering these demon
ations we were previously on the ground
listening to family members of captives
expressing how tired they were of
netanyahu's inability to secure a deal
but now it's a little bit different the
tide has shifted and that's because of
the captives that were retrieved their
bodies rather from Southern Gaza over
the weekend now according to Israeli
Army intelligence those captives were
still alive just a few days before and
according to leaks within Israeli media
and from Hamas officials a lot of those
captives were actually going to be on a
list to be released within the first
phase of a ceasefire deal that never
happened so the family members of
captives are blaming Netanyahu directly
for their death saying that he is the
reason why there hasn't been a deal so
there's been a lot of anger and we've
seen these demonstrations in
unprecedented numbers especially in Tel
Aviv around 300,000 people there on
Sunday half a million across the country
that same night and police police for
the first time using stun grenades to
disperse the crowds police mounted on
Horseback trampling demonstrators and
remember there was also a labor strike
called by the most powerful and largest
Labor Union within Israel which was a
rare move during wartime so the tides
are certainly shifting but it's still
unclear what kind of effect it's having
on Netanyahu hni in the face of that
popular anger the Prime Minister doubl
down on keeping troops along the Gaza
Egypt border the Philadelphia Corridor
and that as we know is possibly the
biggest impediment to getting a
ceasefire deal done Netanyahu claimed
that Israel needs to stay there for
security reasons needs to keep troops
along the corridor but his former
Defense Minister not his a former
Defense Minister Benny Gans just said
actually know Israel doesn't need that
for security purposes very publicly tell
us
more well that's right Netanyahu
doubling down in a press conference on
Monday saying that Israel Presence at
the Philadelphia Corridor to ensure
there is no sort of weapons smuggling
from Egypt is critical if there is a
deal but Benny gance remember a former
member of the unity government a former
member of Israel's war cabinet that was
dissolved after he decided to leave and
step down because of disagreements with
how Netanyahu was handling the war so
Benny gance is essentially saying that
he's a former Defense Minister he's a
former military Chief of Staff he knows
how the Army Works he knows what they
need and it's not a presence at the
Philadelphia Corridor it's not an
occupation there that there could be
other mechanisms in place to ensure that
the weapon smuggling perhaps doesn't
happen but that troops on the ground are
not needed and this is very publicly
from someone who has said that
everything Netanyahu is saying up until
this point is wrong and also a lie hamda
salut reporting from Aman Jordan thank
you very much
hamda make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer